History of coffee

The history of coffee dates back to 850 CE, and possibly earlier 
with a number of reports and legends surrounding its first use. 
It is more likely that it originated in the Kingdom of Sheba
which was in Ethiopia and Yemen. The earliest sources is a 
story about an Ethiopian farmer who noticed his goats becoming 
energized after eating the coffee berries.

There is also evidence of either coffee drinking or knowledge 
of the coffee tree from the early 15th century, in the Sufi 
monasteries of Yemen, spreading soon to Mecca and Medina. By 
the 16th century, it had reached the rest of the Middle East, 
South India (Karnataka), Persia, Turkey, India, and northern 
Africa. Coffee then spread to the Balkans, Italy, and to the 
rest of Europe, as well as Southeast Asia despite the bans 
imposed during the 15th century by religious leaders in Mecca 
and Cairo, and later by the Catholic Church.

Significant dates

According to legend, the coffee plant was discovered in 
Ethiopia by a goat herder named Kaldi around 850 AD, who 
observed increased physical activity in his goats after they 
consumed coffee beans.

The first coffee plant was found in the mountains of Yemen. 
Then by 1500, it was exported to the rest of the world through 
the port of Mocha, Yemen.

First cultivation in India (Chikmagalur) – 1600

First cultivation in Europe 
(also first cultivation outside of East Africa/Arabia) – 1616

First cultivation in Java – 1699
First cultivation in Caribbean 
(Cuba, Hispaniola, Jamaica, Puerto Rico) – 1715–1730

First cultivation in South America – 1730

First cultivation in Dutch East Indies – 1720

The plants were first introduced in the Americas around 1723.

Roasted beans first sold on retail market (Pittsburgh) – 1865

Important spray-drying techniques developed in 1950s, 
which along with freeze drying are method to create instant coffee


Processing
Further information: Processing of coffee
When the fruit is ripe, it is almost always handpicked, 
using either "selective picking", where only the ripe fruit 
is removed, or "strip-picking", where all of the fruit is removed 
from a limb all at once. This selective picking gives the growers 
reason to give their coffee a certain specification 
called "operation cherry red" (OCR). In rare circumstances, 
the Asian palm civet eats coffee berries and excretes the beans. 
These beans are called kopi luwak, and can be processed 
further into a rare and expensive coffee.


