3. Reward customers with loyalty cards
Coffee Shop Loyalty Card

Loyalty cards are a great way to reward
 your customers and give them an incentive 
to keep coming back to your coffee shop on a regular basis.

A stamp loyalty card with an offer such as 
‘buy nine coffees and get the 10th one free’ 
is the simplest way to do this.

If you find business is slower on a certain day 
of the week, you can introduce a ‘Double Stamp Day’ 
to increase footfall – giving customers who make a 
purchase during that day two stamps on their card instead of one.

 

4. Grab their attention with promotional banners
A promotional banner situated outside on 
the pavement will help attract customers into your coffee shop.

As this is the first thing people will see 
about your business, make sure your advertisement 
uses a striking image or message that instantly grabs 
their attention.

Try not to overload it with information. 
Focus on a slogan or message you want to get across, 
followed by a bright and memorable design.


7. Host a special event and promote it
Holding an upcoming event at your coffee shop, 
such as a poetry reading, open mic night or an evening
 class in cupcake making can help boost your profile.

Advertise community events like this by designing
 a branded poster with all the relevant information. 
Then, hand them out to other local businesses to ensure
 your event is noticed.

Not only will this bring in new customers in a 
different way, it helps raise your profile in the local community.

 

8. Get search engine savvy with your online presence
It should be easy for your customers to find information 
about you online. Make sure to regularly update your social 
media and Google profiles with your business’ opening times, 
contact details and menu options. If you’re veggie or vegan 
friendly, let people know – it can be a great way to get customers
 through the door and talking about your business.

Consider all the questions your customers might have 
about your business and put that info on your social profiles 
for an easy way to keep people up-to-date.

9. Brand your business within your coffee shop
As well as promoting your brand outside of the business, 
it’s important to retain your current customers by marketing
 inside your coffee shop.

Table talkers are small and cost-effective 
on-table displays that bear your logo and branding. 
They can be regularly updated with your current offers, 
upcoming events and company values.

Place them on your tables for an effective way 
of displaying your next big promotion, while customers 
wait for their order.

10. Update your menu with new choices
Coffee Shop Menu

Regularly updating your menu with new and 
exciting choices can help ensure customers keep 
returning to your coffee shop.

Try embellishing these additions by giving your 
food and drinks imaginative names, to help your business 
stand out from your competitors.

Another trick is to place your most expensive
 coffee drinks near the top of your menu. It’s a simple 
way to boost your coffee shop’s profits in a single move.

 